6-8 English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com
Hello and welcome to 6-minute English from BBCLearningEnglish
I'm Phil and today we have Hannah joining us again from BBC podcast What In The World
Welcome Hannah
A-ville? It is so great to be back here
So I'm wondering, do you do things that you think are good for the planet?
Oh, I try but I don't think I do enough
So maybe I cycle more than I drive
And I try to recycle things but I should be doing a lot more
But some people think that to deal with climate change
We can't just rely on individuals
Phil, it's not up to you and me
We need to actually change the way our economy works
And this is an idea called D-growth
And we've been investigating it at What In The World
And we're going to learn a bit more about it today
But first, our quiz question
World leaders promised in 2015 to limit global temperature rises
But what was the limit they agreed to?
Was it a 1.5 degree Celsius?
B, 2.5 degree Celsius
Or C, 3.5 degree Celsius
I think I know this one Phil
I think it's 1.5 degree Celsius
Okay, we'll find out the answer later in the program
So Hannah, you've been researching D-growth
What does that mean?
Well Phil, traditionally governments have always wanted to grow the economy
More money, more jobs, more stuff
But D-growth is a different way of thinking about things
Some people say that to tackle the climate crisis
We need to stop our economies from growing
We need to stop using and making more
And focus on using fewer of the earth's natural resources
The people who support the idea of D-growth
Are often called D-growthers
Right, okay, so D-growthers argue we should make and use less stuff
Yes, mostly
It's a little bit more complex than that
And I spoke to BBC journalist Alvaro Alvarez
Who told me more about the idea?
So D-growth is not saying that we need to reduce everything
It's saying that we need to decrease some elements of our production
That are not beneficial
An example of those elements would be fast-fashion
Private jets, the beef and meat industry
So it's not about decreasing everything
Alvaro says that D-growthers believe we should reduce
Some elements of production
An element of something is a part of something
And according to Alvaro, these elements of production
Are not believed to be beneficial
If something's beneficial, it's useful or good
One example of a kind of production that D-growthers disagree with
Is fast-fashion
Fast-fashion refers to clothes that are made very cheaply and quickly
So that customers can afford to buy new outfits more often
Exactly
And before we go any further, many economists do not think that D-growth is a good idea
Some of them argue that it would create more poverty
And some economists believe D-growth would actually make it harder to solve the climate crisis
For example, Professor Sam Fankhauser, an economist at Cambridge University in the UK
Spoke to you on what in the world
And he argues that D-growth could limit innovation
I think D-growth underestimates the power of innovation
D-growth underestimates the need for investment
That we need a new technology and a new solutions
And D-growth underestimates the social sort of feasibility of what they propose
So Professor Fankhauser thinks that D-growth underestimates many things
Such as innovation
If you underestimate something, you don't understand the true importance or size of it
Another factor that Professor Fankhauser says is underestimated by D-growthers
Is the feasibility of social change
Fesibility means the possibility that something can be achieved
It comes from the adjective feasible
For example, I could say that I think it's feasible for us to finish this podcast in six minutes
I think we can do it
Well Phil, we're going to have to get a move on
I think it's time to hear the answer to your quiz question
I asked how much world leaders agreed to limit global temperature rises to
The answer is 1.5 degrees Celsius
Which scientists believe is needed to stop the worst impacts of climate change
I got it right
Okay, so let's recap some of the vocabulary we've learned
Starting with D-growth, which is the economic idea that we should use and make less stuff
An element of something means a part of something
Beneficial means useful or good
Fast fashion refers to clothes that are made cheaply and quickly
So that people can buy them more often
And if you underestimate something, you don't understand the true importance or size of it
The feasibility of something is the likelihood that it can be achieved
We can also describe something as feasible or unfisable
We can do it, or we can't do it
Phil, once again our six minutes are up
But there is just a little bit more time for me to tell you more about my podcast
What in the world?
We have a new episode every single weekday
And we talk about the news, trending topics
In fact, it's a great place to come and learn some new vocabulary about things that are happening in the world
Yes, if you've found this episode interesting, try watching what in the world on YouTube with subtitles to practice your English
There's a link in the notes for this episode
And don't forget to try the quiz and work sheet at BBCLearningEnglish.com
Phil, thank you so much for having me again on six minute English
Bye for now
Bye